## 1. Description of the Project

This website is built with the purpose of showcasing different foods and dishes that are common in Norway or has originated there. The websites has ordered the dishes into different narratives, each with underlying chapters. Each narrative has a description for that narrative, and what to expect. Each chapter also has a description for that particular chapter. For example, in the historic narrative, each chapter is a time period, each of which has a description about that time period. Each item is described with a name, an english translation, an image, some metadata describing different interesting characteristics about the food, and a set of descriptions. In total there are nine different descriptions, each with a different length and "level of difficulty". For each level of difficulty, there is in reality only one text, but it is divided into three chunks that build upon the previous chunk of text. This is done to create an engaging experience for the user where they will get more and more in-depth information as they please, by asking for more text. These texts are all generated by ChatGPT, but are proof-read and edited to ensure quality. Each item also has a QR-code associated with it, which redirects to a website the user can read more about the item. These sources are all in english, as the websites intended audience are not norwegian. The website provides a set of four different themes when naviating the chapters and items, all with a different connection to norwegian culture. There is also a base layout available for a more "sterile" experience.

## 2. Architecture

The website is built with a seperation between the frontend and backend. For simplicity, the logic is built directly into the presentation layer, making the website a three-layered application, if you count the API, server and database-storage as one layer, as the API and server are also built together in the same file. The frontend is built with Vite, with React and Typescript. The backend is built with Express.js on top of Node.js and uses a remote MongoDB-database for storage.

## 2.1 Frontend

The web stack for the frontend is chosen because of the low barrier of entry for creating simple applications. React allows us to generate HTML dynamically through JSX, according to our needs. We wanted to avoid creating static HTML-documents, as we wished for our content to be dynamic and easily changeable, for example if we were to change a narratve or the items on display. This is a lot easier with dynamically generated HTML, rather than through static document. It also ensures all chapters and items follow the same visual layout and profile, as this is now defined in the page-files that generate the chapters and items. The consequence of this choice is that our logic is placed in the same files as the presentation, as opposed to a separate js-file like you would do in static HTML/CSS/JS-style application. The choice of Vite as a build tool stems from previous experience with the tool, while Typescript was chosen for type-safety and more robust and maintainable code than with plain Javascript, also following our goal of a dynamical and easily changeable website.

## 2.2 Backend

The backend is built with Express.js on top of Node.js. The simple reason is that this is a very common structure. For simplicity we have created both the server and the API end-points in the same file. There are four main endpoints. One is for getting all narratives and is used by the cover page to provide a list of narrative to choose. The second is an endpoint for getting a particular narrative, and is used in the Narrative-page to display a description of the narrative, and a list of chapters to choose from. The third endpoint is for getting a particular chapter within a narrative, and is used by the Chapter-page. This uses a 0-index for the chapter in the URI to specify a the chapter from the list in that narrative. The fourth is the endpoint for getting a particular item, and is used by the Item-page. The URI also requires a narrative-id and a chapter index. This is done for the purpose of good navigation in the application. In the Chapter- and Item-pages, the user can navigate back and forth between both items and chapters. For this to function, the API generates pointers to next chapter, previous chapter, next item and previous item, for both the chapter- and the item-endpoints. These pointers are the URLs to that page. For this to function for the item-endpoint, the API needs to knwo which narrative and chapter the item is in. Therefore, any call to get an item requires both a narrative-id and a chapter-index.

## 2.3 Database

For the database we have chosen MongoDB, as it is fast, simple to set up, and our data being semi-structured. In the database, we have decided to store items and narratives in separate collections. This follows our goal of a dynamic application, as this allows us to easily add new items or narratives, or possibly changing existing narratives. Within each narrative, we store a description for that narrative and a list of chapters, each with their own introduction, to explain the chapter. Each chapter then has a list of items, however, as the items are stored seperately, we only store the reference id of each item. This allows us to make changes to an item, and be sure that change propagates to all instances of that item in the application. However, this does mean that the description of the item are general, and does not provide any specificity to a particular narrative it is placed in.

## 3. Design Choices

For our application, we had a made the choice that there should be a clear separation between the primary pages and the auxiliary pages. With the primary pages, we refer to the pages providing the actual content the website was intended for, i.e. the Narrative, the Chapter and the Item pages. The auxiliary pages refer to the "other" pages, such as providing a description of the application, the imaginary map for a museum, and other explanatory pages. With this in mind, only the primary pages have proper styling, while the auxiliary pages have a more "sterile", basic look. The primary pages are also the only ones affected by the choice of theme. 

## 3.1 Base Layout
For the base layout in the Chapter and Item pages, our philosophy was to incorporate a tabular base layout, reminiscent of something you could find on an interactive screen at a museum. The idea was to create a box on the page, wherein the content would be displayed. Within the box, you would have the relevant content, and a navigation bar at the bottom. While this box only takes up a subspace of the page, and could be deemed inefficient, we chose this design with our core philosophy in mind. Furthermore, this choice allows us to make use of themes in a more satisfying way, as the whitespace outside of the box now would be available for to support the different themes.

Within our base layout, we have chosen font sizes, paddings and borders that all follow a consistent size. This is to ensure that the content is easy to read, and that the user can focus on the content. We wanted to avoid a cluttered look, and therefore chose this consistent size. This also plays into hwo we have chosen to implement a common layout for our themes. As a core rule, we have chosen to use 1em as a base sie to follow. This is a normalized padding and font size for the web, and was done to create familiarity for the user, and not requiring them to adjusting themselves to a new web experience. 

For the content, we wanted tabular view to be the same, regardless of the text and image of the content displayed. We chose to give the image a third of the box's width, and the text the rest of the width. This was done as we found it to be a good tradeoff between the two, letting the image be large enough to be viewable and valuable, but giving the text the majority of the space, to allow it to dominate the box and be the obvious main visual part of the page, mimicking how it is supposed to be the most important part of the content. The buttons take up the space need for the user experience of navigation to be easy and understandable, not making them so small to understand their meaning, but not making them to big to over-dominate the box. We regard the metadata and QR-code as content for extra interested users. Because of this, we have chosen to place it "behind" the image, as something you toggle to view. This lets us not interrupt the experience of the common user with unneccessary information.


## 3.2 Themes

For our themes, we want them to be clear and obvious, and have a large impact on the page and viewer experience, while not being overly ambitious and border into obnoxious. We chose to retain the base layout to maintain the user experience and not be too intrusive, but instead we centered our themes around a main background, font and fitting changes to the border, as these are the main components of our base layout. With this, we created full themes, giving a certain feel to the user, while not disrupting the experience as a whole. The backgrounds are intended to create a clear environment and are the main component of the theme. The fonts were chosen to support the environment and add extra depth to the feeling. The borders are meant as a secondary effect to give a more overall feel to support the theme. 

Because the exhibiton is based around a particular subset of norwegian culture, we wanted to support it by choosing themes that all have a root in norwegian culture. The four themes are: The Viking Era, Norwegian Nature, Nordic Style and Scandinavian Minimalism.

## 3.2.1 The Viking Era

The Viking Era is a staple of Norwegian heritage and has a well known and clear historic profile. With this theme, we want to create a rune-scripture like feeling of the page, as if it the interface had been created by a viking, during The Viking age. In order to do so, we added a font that looks like something from that age. Also, to give the feel of the page being written at that age, we added a light parchment paper as the background, to mimick a old-looking book-page. To complete the rough look we added a thick, hard border.

## 3.2.2 Norwegian Nature

Norway is globally known for its grand and pristine nature of fjords, mountains and valleys. For this theme, we wanted to create a feel of actually overlooking and experiencing this norwegian nature. For this, we use an image of Senja as the background, visualizing a fjord. The part of the image where the content is placed has good contrast, but we added an extra white background to the box to increase the contrast, making the text easy to read. We chose the italic-like font to add to the outdoor-feel of theme. Secondly, this font bears a lot of resemblance to the hand-written greetings you would find in books inside specific cabins located in Norway. The border has a gradient created to add to the background, to make the actual border blend more into the nature. This has a connection to the norwegian mindset of protecting nature from aggressive externalities, such as making all constructions like buildings blend into nature.

## 3.2.3 Nordic Style

For this theme, we wanted to create a traditional norwegian feel. A central part of norwegian culture is the connection the rural lifestyle which was very common in the centuries before Norway discovered oil. From this period emerged traditional clothing such as the bunad, which is the national costume, and particular patterns, often knitted into sweaters of sewn into the clothes. The Marius-sweater is a modern example, while other patterns like the Selbu pattern also has this connection. With this in mind, we added a background giving resemblance to the traditionally knitted clothing of the past, containing the Selbu-pattern, along with pine trees, a common tree in rural Norway. With knitted clothing being hand-made, we support our theme with a font resembling hand-written text. The border is also a pattern, containt the three colors of the norwegian flag; red, white and blue.

## 3.2.4 Scandinavian Minimalism

Scandinavian minimalism, often refered to as Scandi-minimal, is a design philosophy based upon simplicity, functionality and calm aesthetics. It has clear roots to the scandinavian personality, more introverted and calm by nature, and having little focus on and need for expressiveness and distinguishing oneself. For this theme, we chose a background image of some walls form a home with this design, as this section would function well as a fitting background with little noise. The silky and quiet aesthetic is continued in the sleek font, while border is also overly slim, with a focus on being quiet, but functional.